_ Changes in Anki 2 _

= Please Read This =

Your time is precious, and you may not have time to read this whole document -
that's fine. But please read this section, as it points out a few things that
are most likely to cause surprises in the new version.

 * Reviews are <<perday,limited>> to 100/day by default.
 * When you answer "again", there are now two
   link:manual.html#learning[learning] reviews of the card, so the red count
   will increase by two.
 * Cloze deletion has been much improved, but now requires you to select a
   special <<cloze,cloze type>> (the top left button in the Add window).
 * Selective study is still possible, but is done differently. You can either
   move cards into different decks (via 'Change Deck' in the card browser), or
   create a <<filtered,filtered deck>> that searches for particular tags, card
   properties and so on.
 * If you study material in multiple directions / used multiple card
   templates, please see <<cardgen,this section>> for info on how cards are
   selected now.
 * Anki only checks the <<dupes,first field>> to see if it's unique now.

The rest of this page describes all the changes in more detail. For more
information, please also see the link:manual.html[user manual], which has been
completely rewritten for version 2.

= Decks & Profiles =


++++++++++
<img src="/docs/dev/1-decks.png" width=341 height=318 style="float:right;margin:1em;">
++++++++++

 * Instead of storing each deck in a separate file, Anki now stores all of
   your decks in a single file called a 'collection'. This makes it easy to
   move cards between decks, and different decks can now share models and
   facts.
 * Decks can now be organized in a tree. Use "::" to mark descending levels,
   like "German::My textbook::Lesson 1".
 * Multiple decks can share the same settings group, so updating the settings
   for one deck updates the settings for the other decks using that group.
 * If more than one person uses Anki on your computer, you can now create a
   separate user profile for each user. Each user profile has their own
   collection of decks, and Anki will remember settings separately for each
   user. link:manual.html#profiles[More info].

= Terminology =

 * A 'fact' is now called a 'note'.
 * Instead of talking about a note's 'model', we now talk about a note's 'type'.
 * A 'collection' stores all your notes, cards, and so on.
 * You can divide the cards up into separate groups, called 'decks'.
 * 'Plugins' are now called 'add-ons'.

[[perday]]
= Per-day limiting =

 * The new cards per day limit is controllable per deck, and bounded by the
   parent decks. This means if "French" has a limit of 20 cards and
   "French::Lesson 1" and "French::Lesson 2" both have limits of 15 cards,
   you'll get 15 cards from lesson 1 but only 5 cards from lesson 2.

 * Decks now have a limit on daily reviews as well, which defaults to 100.
   When the limit is reached, Anki will not present further reviews from that
   deck, even if there are cards waiting. When the congratulations page is
   reached, a notice will be displayed, advising the user that for optimum
   memory, they should consider increasing the daily limit. This change is
   intended to reduce the sense of being overwhelmed that people feel after
   returning to Anki from a break. Large due counts can be off-putting, and
   while it's not optimal for a user to leave due cards waiting, if they give
   up in frustration that's an even worse outcome.

 * No limit is applied to cards in learning, as the learning count is a
   product of the number of new cards and reviews that are done each day.

= Shared Decks =

++++++++++
<img src="2-overview.png" style="float:right; margin: 1em;">
++++++++++

 * Shared decks can now be browsed on AnkiWeb, and downloaded from your browser.
 * You can now rate and comment on shared decks.
 * You can now pull in new cards from a previously downloaded shared deck.

[[selective]]
= Selective Study =

Anki's new deck system is based on the following observations:

 * Nested categories like "French->Book 1->Lesson 3" are more intuitive to the
   typical user than the tags "french book1 lesson3".
 * Many users struggled with the old selective study system, be it because
   they'd accidentally used overlapping tags that cancelled out what they
   wanted to do, or because they'd removed particular tags from review and
   forgotten they'd done so.
 * Tag-based limiting did not perform well - slowdowns of 10x or more were not
   uncommon.
 * Some users wished to assign different study settings to different cards.
   This is not practical with tags, as they overlap, and it would require an
   elaborate system of defining which tags should take precedence for that to
   work.

Those issues are addressed as follows:

 * In Anki 2, the standard review system is based on the 'current deck',
   rather than a list of allowed/disallowed tags. Decks can be nested,
   allowing you to define the order cards should appear in and allowing you to
   focus on specific subsections individually.
 * Tag-based study is still possible via a flexible filtered deck
   system, described further below.

As there's no way to directly map the old selective study feature into the new
way of doing things, a little manual setup is required after upgrading if you
were using selective study before.

If you had a small number of tags which you switched between, such as
"Japanese" and "French", then your best bet is probably to search for each tag
in turn in the browser, and use "Change Deck" to move the resulting cards into
separate decks.

If you were using selective study to control introduction of new cards (such
as blocking lessons 5-18 from being displayed), you could also convert each
lesson into a deck, but that's somewhat cumbersome. An easier method would be
to suspend the cards you're not ready for, and then unsuspend them on a
per-lesson basis when you're ready to study them. You could do it like this:

 1. Search for "tag:lesson* is:new" to find all new cards with a lesson tag.
    Select them all, and suspend them.
 2. Assuming you were halfway through lesson4 before upgrading, search for
    tag:lesson4 is:new" and unsuspend any cards that got suspended by the
    previous step.
 3. When you're ready to move on to lesson 5, search for "tag:lesson5" and
    unsuspend the cards.

= Priorities =

 * Like selective study, card display order is now controlled via nested decks
   instead of tags. When you select a given deck, Anki walks the deck
   and its subdecks in alphabetical order looking for cards. So if you have
   cards in "French::Vocab", "French::Sentences" and "French:Misc" and you
   select the "French" deck, cards will be fetched first from Misc, then
   Sentences, and then Vocab, as that is the alphabetical order of those
   decks. You can use this property to ensure certain cards are reviewed
   earlier or later than normal: prepending a "!" like "!Vocab" would ensure
   vocab cards come first, and prepending a "_" would ensure they come last.

 * For more fine-grained reordering of new card presentation order, the
   browser now has a reposition command which can change the order of new
   cards in the queue. You can use this for prioritizing material, changing
   the order cards of different types will be mixed together, and so on.

= Scheduling =

++++++++++
<img src="3-review.png" style="float:right; margin: 1em;">
++++++++++

 * Anki has a much-improved learning mode. When new cards are introduced or
   old cards forgotten, they can now be shown over a number of increasing
   intervals before they graduate into normal reviews cards. More information
   in the manual: link:manual.html#learning[learning]
 * Reviews are only scheduled on a per-day basis now. If you wish to divide a
   day's cards into multiple sessions, you can either use the timeboxing
   feature or simply do a certain number of cards and stop until later.
 * Only when you fail a review card is the card's lapse count increased. This
   means that failures while the card is in learning no longer count towards a
   card being a leech.
 * You can customize the behaviour when failing reviews. By default failed
   reviews are put back in the learn queue to be relearnt. You can have a
   different set of steps for cards that are being relearnt, which allows you
   to reduce the steps required or require longer waits compared to cards that
   are being learnt for the first time.
 * A multiplier is now available to cause Anki to schedule reviews more
   frequently or less frequently than it would otherwise.
 * Due counts are now displayed in the more logical new -> learning ->
   reviewing order. The ETA and progress bars have been removed, and the timer
   is off by default (in the above screenshot, the due counts are not shown as
   they are only shown while the question is visible)
 * The learning count is the count of how many answers are required to
   complete the queue, not how many cards. With the default settings of two
   reviews to graduate, the learning count will be twice the number of cards
   to learn.
 * In normal study, reviews are always sorted by due order now. If you need to
   change the order to deal with a backlog, you can do it with a filtered
   deck.
 * While there is no explicit option for "show failed cards at end" anymore,
   you can achieve the same behaviour by setting the learning steps to a
   length longer than your session length (eg, 1 hour), and increasing "learn
   ahead limit" in the preferences to that number as well.

[[filtered]]
= Filtered Decks, Cramming & Reviewing Early =

 * Filtered decks allow you to gather cards from other decks based on specific
   criteria and with a specific ordering.
 * They are very flexible: they can be used for previewing cards, cramming
   them before a test, studying particular tags like the old selective study
   feature, catching up on a backlog with a particular sort order, reviewing
   ahead, going over the day's failed cards, and more.
 * They can be set to reschedule based on your answers (like Anki 1.2) or
   leave the original cards alone (like Anki 1.0).
 * Filtered decks also replace the old "review early" button. They offer two
   advantages: you can now choose how many days to look ahead, and you can
   close Anki and resume reviewing early where you left off, instead of
   starting with the same cards again like in Anki 1.2.
 * For more information, please see
   http://ankisrs.net/docs/dev/manual.html#filtered

= Syncing =

 * In most cases, you can now merge changes from multiple devices instead of
   having to choose which side to keep.
 * Full syncs are only necessary on the first sync and after changing things
   like the number of fields in a note. If you're about to make a change that
   would force a full sync, you're warned about it and given the option of
   aborting.
 * Modifying many cards or notes no longer forces a full sync - incremental
   syncs can now handle even large amounts of data.
 * Clock drift will no longer lead to incorrect syncs. That said, it's still
   confusing to move to another machine with a different clock and find
   greater or fewer cards due, so Anki will still require the clock to be
   within 5 minutes of the real time.
 * All data is encrypted before being sent over the internet.
 * If the connection times out, Anki will automatically retry.

= Media & LaTeX =

 * AnkiWeb now supports media natively, instead of requiring a third-party
   service like DropBox. No special setup is required - when you sync your
   decks, their media will be automatically synced with it. Anki monitors the
   media folder now, so there are no issues with an out of date media DB like
   there were in the past.

 * Media and LaTeX references in templates are not currently supported,
   because they don't play well with shared decks. The upgrade routines will
   notice references like [sound:{{field}}.mp3] in your templates and
   automatically create a new field with the media tags embedded in it, like
   [sound:apple.mp3]. If you manually add the references back in, Anki will
   not notice the media is in use when you check the media DB.

 * When you upgrade, Anki moves the media in each deck's .media folder into
   the new collection's media folder. You had different files with the same
   name in multiple decks, Anki will automatically rename the media for you.

 * If for some reason Anki wasn't able to move your media from its old
   location, please manually move the media files from the old .media folders
   into your Documents/Anki/User 1/collection.media folder.

= The Browser =

++++++++++
<img src="4-browsing.png" style="float:right; margin: 1em;">
++++++++++

 * Tags and decks are displayed in a panel on the left, and can be clicked to
   search for. Hold down ctrl or command while clicking to append the item to
   the search string.
 * Columns are now configurable - right click on the header and you can enable
   and disable the columns you want to search on. Click on a column to sort by
   it; drag a column to move it to a different place.
 * Previously you could ask the browser to sort by a particular field, but
   doing so caused any notes without that field not to show. In 2.0, each note
   type has a "sort field". The sort field can be shown as a column, and can
   be sorted on. Click the "Fields..." button to change the sort field. Anki
   will automatically sort in numeric order if the field contains only
   numbers; you don't have to tell it a field is numeric anymore.
 * Many search operations are faster than before, but some cases are slower.
   The search box now requires you to hit enter; it will not automatically
   search as you type, as some people type slower than others and for
   expensive searches, automatic searching can be painful.
 * In 1.2, a copy of each field was kept with style information stripped, so
   that you could search for a word and have matches appear even if part of
   the word contained style information (bold, etc). Anki 2 drops this cache,
   as it was expensive to maintain. In Anki 2 if you want to search for
   partially-styled text, you need to limit yourself to the current
   sort field (which Anki can use when searching)

////
, or go to Edit>Browser
   Options where you can enable searching in formatting. Beware that when you
   turn on full searching, searches will be considerably slower on large
   decks.
////

 * Selections are now preserved when the search criteria is changed, so you
   can do things like select a bunch of cards, then click on "New" in the side
   bar to narrow the selection to only cards that are new. Preserving the
   selection of many cards at once is slow however, so if the selection is too
   large it is discarded on the next search.
 * Rescheduling behaves differently now. Cards have their interval and ease
   reset but keep their review history. If you need to completely reset a card,
   you can still do it via export.
 * The browser now exposes the full review history. Click the info button on
   the toolbar to see it. Note that this data was stored differently in
   previous versions, so the display of whether a card was being learnt,
   reviewed, relearnt or so on may not always be correct for old data.

= Card Layout =

++++++++++
<img src="5-templates.png">
++++++++++

 * In Anki 1.2, {{ field }} references were automatically wrapped in style
   information. This meant that the prompt text and field text of a template
   like "What is the capital city of {{ country }}?" often ended up different,
   and users had to use {{{ field }}} instead and figure out the necessary
   HTML.

 * In 2.0, there is no implicit styling: instead of choosing fonts, colors,
   alignment and so on in the GUI, it's all embedded in the template as
   standard HTML and CSS. As a bonus, this allows you to do things like use a
   gradient or image for your card background if you wish.

 * The "hide question when showing answer" option has gone away: Anki always
   replaces the question with the answer now. Templates default to including
   the question fields on the answer text however, so Anki will behave like
   always. The "show divider between question and answer" option has gone away
   too, as the divider is included on the template and can be removed if
   desired.

[[cardgen]]
= Card Generation & Deletion =

 * In previous versions of Anki, the cards that were generated when adding
   facts depended on whether the cards would be blank or not, and whether
   you'd selected that card in the top right button of the Add window. Anki 2
   only considers the former now - there's no button anymore to select
   particular cards. Instead, you can use the conditional replacement features
   of the templates to control which cards are generated in a predictable way.
   If you still need control over which cards are generated (such as adding a
   native->foreign language card for only the most important material), you
   can either create a separate note type for the important material, or add
   an extra field to use as a flag. For example, you could add a field called
   "important", and make the second card's generation depend on the field
   being non-empty. Then you can just add a character such as "y" to that
   field on the important cards. Anki will automatically do this for your
   decks when they are upgraded, so that you don't lose or gain cards when
   upgrading.

 * This change means there is no "generate cards" dialog anymore, nor a
   "delete card" feature, as card existence is now controlled solely by the
   template.

 * One caveat: if Anki removed cards as notes were edited, users who deleted
   the existing content of a field with the intention of replacing it might be
   surprised to find their cards were reset (as a result of the card being
   deleted and then added again). To prevent this, Anki will not automatically
   delete cards on individual note changes. To remove empty cards, click
   Tools>Maintenance>Empty Cards.

[[dupes]]
= Fields and Duplicates =

 * You can no longer specify whether a field should be unique or required.
   Anki makes sure the first field is both provided and unique, but does not
   check the other fields. Anki did not perform well when many cards were
   marked unique (since it has to cache all that information), and a single
   field is sufficient for determining if a given subject has been entered in
   before. If you wish to look for accidental duplicates in secondary fields
   due to typos, you can use the Find Duplicates feature in the browser.

 * For more info, please see <<dupes2,this question>>.

 * Fields can now be marked sticky. This means that when you add notes, the
   field content is not erased and is left in the field. This is useful when
   you're adding a series of notes that have similar field content.

= Performance =

 * Decks are considerably smaller now. Most people should see a size drop of
   3-6x.
 * Many operations have been optimized. You should find your decks load much
   faster now, and studying should be smoother. These changes should be
   especially pronounced on the mobile clients.
 * Anki should now perform much better when your hard disk is being heavily
   accessed.
 * Graphs load much faster, and it's now possible to see graphs of your entire
   collection at once.

= The Editor =

 * Fields now dynamically expand to fit their content.
 * Fields can now display complex HTML without mangling it.
 * You can now jump to a conflicting note when conflicts are detected
 * Images are shown at a reduced size in editing mode.

[[cloze]]
= Cloze Deletion =

 * Cloze deletion now makes it easy to generate multiple clozes from a single
   body of text. All of the clozes share the same note, and edits to the note
   will update all cards at once.
 * Cloze deletion works with LaTeX now, too.
 * Clozes appear as bold and blue like before, but they can now be customized
   in the template.
 * Clozes made with previous versions will not be converted to the new
   style; it only applies to newly made cards.

= Graphs and Stats =

++++++++++
<img src="6-graphs.png"  style="float:right; margin: 1em;">
++++++++++

 * The deck statistics and graphs have been merged into a single report that
   contains both text and graphs, and they have been completely rewritten in
   the process. There's now more information available, and it's easier to
   compare things like the cumulative work spent on reviews vs relearning vs
   initial learning.

 * The old period selection boxes have been replaced with a single box down
   the bottom, allowing you to change between a monthly, yearly, and deck life
   view of the data. The data is chunked into weeks or months in the larger
   graphs, which both performs better and offers a clearer view of trends.

 * There is a button to save the graphs to an image, to make it easier to
   share your graphs with friends or teachers.

= Spacing Siblings =

 * When you start studying, the new cards for the day are gathered - 20 by
   default. When each card is shown, all its siblings are moved to the end of
   the queue, so they're spaced as far apart in those 20 cards as possible.
 * If you want new siblings to be introduced further apart, you can put them
   in different decks or use the reposition feature of the browser.
 * When determining the next review time of a review card, Anki now checks the
   surrounding days and tries to place the review on a day when no siblings
   have reviews. The possibilities to consider are configurable.

= Saving & Undoing =

 * The "save" and "save as" operations have been removed. Saving is now
   transparent to the user, and happens every 5 minutes of adding/reviews, and
   after various other operations. By having more control over the saving
   process, Anki can save more efficiently, and revert changes when an
   operation goes wrong.
 * The undo system has been simplified. The old method was comprehensive, but
   made updates to the deck considerably more expensive, and could cause
   inconsistencies under rare circumstances. Multi-level undo has been
   preserved for reviews, but other destructive operations now have a single
   level undo, which is guaranteed to restore the deck to a consistent state.

= License =

 * In 2.0, Anki will be moving from the GNU GPL3 license to another GNU
   license: the AGPL3. The Affero license is compatible with the GPL3, so
   existing plugins do not need to be relicensed. The major difference from
   the GPL3 is that the license requires people who modify the code and run it
   on a web service to make that modified code available to users of the web
   service. It effectively means a company can't make an online service using
   Anki's code unless they reciprocate by sharing their changes. This clause
   should not affect regular users at all.

 * Also of note is that ankiqt is now dual licensed like libanki was. I don't
   have any immediate plans to take advantage of this, but it opens up the
   possibility of custom versions in the future for companies who want to
   distribute a stripped down and/or content-protected version of Anki with their
   content for a fee. The desktop version will continue to be released as open
   source, and I have no plans to change that.
   
 * Because much of the code has been rewritten in 2.0 there is very little
   code contributed by other people remaining. I've contacted the authors of
   the remaining code and asked for their permission for the licensing change.
   I don't think I've missed anyone, but if I have, please let me know.

= Add-ons =

 * Because of the extensive changes, almost all add-ons will require some
   level of modification to work with 2.0. Some add-ons have been ported
   already, others will likely come in the future.
 * There's now an add-on writing guide link:addons.html[here] that also covers
   the main things to be aware of when porting an old add-on.

= Questions =

*Why are all the decks in one file now?*

This change makes many parts of the UI simpler, and combined with the
performance improvements in version 2, actually performs faster than before.
For scratch decks, you can create a separate profile.

*Some of my cards were missing from a deck after I upgraded!*

If you find a deck missing cards or empty when upgrading, this is because in
the past you have exported cards into another deck and studied both decks in
parallel. Even if you modified the appearance of the cards in one deck, the
cards were originally the same, and Anki continues to consider them the same.
This means that when you try to import the cards in one deck into the other,
nothing happens (on in the case of 2.0, you end up with the cards in one deck
appearing but the cards in the other deck not appearing).

If you have study progress on both versions of the cards that you want to
keep, you'll need to import the deck with the missing cards into a new profile
(via the Switch Profile feature) for now. When I'm less busy, I'll look at
writing an add-on that will alter the cards and allow you to import one
profile into the other in the future.

[[dupes2]]
*Why can't we mark an arbitrary number of fields as unique?*

Consider the notes section of link:manual.html#basics[the basics]. All three
of those fields are unique, and so users could (and often did) mark all of
them as unique in previous versions. The problem is that in order to show
duplicates, Anki needs to either search all similar fields (which is slow), or
maintain a cache that rapidly grows in size as more fields are added to it.

In the above example, only one field is actually required for determining if
you've entered a given element before. Whether it's the element name, number
or symbol you've chosen, by the time you type the first field, you'll be aware
if you've previously entered the same note before. For the purposes of
stopping you from adding duplicate notes that you'll have to delete, one field
is enough.

Languages are a different matter. If you're studying from foreign->native and
native->foreign, and you're studying individual words without context, you may
find you've entered the same meaning on two different notes. While it's not
optimal that you're no longer notified in such a case, there's a key
difference between this case and the case above: in the case above, if we
weren't notified, then we'd have wasted effort typing in the same information
twice. In this case, the duplicate information doesn't need to be thrown away,
but simply augmented so that it can be distinguished from the existing
material. While you're likely to realize you have duplicate meaning during
reviews when you see a prompt and think of a different answer, there is also a
"Find Duplicates" function in the browser.

Because "Find Duplicates" doesn't need to run each time you press a key, it
could potentially be more sophisticated in the future. While it is limited to
exact matches at the moment, extending it to fuzzy matching in the future is
not out of the question.

*Why are you moving away from DropBox?*

Anki 1.2's media syncing caused more confusion than almost any other aspect of
the app. Even when it was working as designed, it was difficult for users to
set up, and was prone to errors when users changed their media folder without
updating the media database. Its usability decreased even further when DropBox
pushed out a silent update that broke third-party apps that were trying to
locate the DropBox folder location. And at the end of July 2012, DropBox will
completely stop providing Public links to new accounts, indicating they don't
want apps providing functionality like Anki did.

I have no immediate plans to charge for media hosting, but in the longer term
I will probably need to introduce premium accounts for people with media over
a certain size so that I can cover the increased hosting costs which I'm
currently paying for out of my pocket.

If you're concerned about having to pay in the future, media syncing can be
disabled in Anki's settings so that only the card/note data is synchronized.
You are then free to use any third-party synchronization service to keep the
media folders in sync between separate computers.

*Why are reviews only scheduled on a per-day basis now?*

 * The SuperMemo algorithm was not designed to work on a sub-day basis, and is
   not accurate to that level.
 * In previous versions of Anki, in order to review in the evening and then
   again the next morning, cards had to be scheduled with small intervals like
   8 hours. Unfortunately this meant that cards reviewed in the morning would
   become due again in the evening, when they are better reviewed after a
   night's sleep.
 * By making all of a day's reviews due in the morning, you can both see at a
   glance how many cards are due that day, and study as many or as few as you
   desire. When you have a busy morning you can leave the cards until later,
   and likewise when you have a lot of free time, you can do all the cards in
   one session. When cards become due throughout the day, it's not easy to
   find out how many more need to be done that day, and you have to jump
   through hoops to study more than are currently due.
 * For the initial learning steps where sub-day scheduling is more important,
   you can use Anki's learning mode instead.

= Changes in Release Candidate 1 =

 * The deck list screen now supports expanding/collapsing decks, thanks to a
   contribution by Chris L.
 * Deck description now correctly imported from apkg.
 * Links in deck description now clickable.
 * Change stats from cards in 5 minutes to cards in 1 minute.
 * Stats now show exact counts for young/mature/etc in labels.
 * The review time/history graph in "deck life" mode now derives the period
   from the deck, not the collection.
 * The answer buttons graph now honors the selected time period.
 * Short times like '4d' no longer ignore translations.
 * Exporting an apkg without scheduling now exports the decks with the default
   configuration group, so they pick up the default settings in the importing
   collection.
 * Failing a review card now honours the minimum interval setting.
 * Use "command" for tooltips in Add screen on OS X
 * Don't show interval for learning cards in browser
 * Don't mark notes as modified when they're imported from an apkg.

= Changes in Release Candidate 2 =

 * 1+ day learning cards should now appear in deck list due counts.
 * Possible workaround for images intermittently failing to show on Windows.
 * Fix up/down buttons on interval multiplier
 * Remove 'collapse' from the options menu next to decks.
 * Improve error message when checking DB on a corrupt collection.

= Changes in Release Candidate 3 =

 * You can now add notes with duplicate front fields - Anki will colour
   the field red, but no longer prevent you from adding.
 * A proper fix for images on the answer side failing to show up on
   Windows/Linux.
 * Failing a review card in a filtered deck should now correctly update its
   interval.
 * Don't incorrectly warn about missing history when the same card has been
   reviewed from multiple locations.
 * Don't scroll to the top of the deck list when updating it.
 * Fix problems editing filtered deck options from deck list screen.
 * Fix profile renaming.
 * The default deck will no longer be shown on the deck list screen if it's
   empty and there are other decks.
 * is:learn now matches relearning cards as well

= Changes in Release Candidate 4 =

 * Removed "Study" from the top bar. The associated 's' shortcut key will still
   work.
 * The deck list now ignores the per-day review limit when counting 1+ day
   learning cards.
 * Fixed some issues with < in a multi-line LaTeX string.
 * Don't allow profiles with trailing spaces, as Windows can't handle them.
 * Show the learning queue as orange instead of red.
 * Handle a few more problems in the DB check.
 * Fix a bug introduced in rc3 where answering 'soon' on a review card would
   lead to an error message.
 * Fix importing of media from Anki 1 decks.

= Changes in Release Candidate 5 =

 * Anki will now rename media automatically on import if a different file with
   the same name already exists in the collection.
 * Fix importing of Anki 1 media.
 * Find suspended cards with is:new again
 * The "check media db" option ignores filenames starting with an underscore. In this
   RC, files beginning with _ will also be included when exporting.
 * Add option to sort by reverse order added when filtering.
 * Fix bug where "0 hours" could be displayed.
 * When importing has ignored duplicates, report how many were already in the
   collection.
 * If you don't map any fields in a CSV file to tags, existing tags will no
   longer be blanked out.
 * Fix incorrect formatting after upgrading certain decks.
 * Fix a bug where Anki would throw an error if you deleted a deck that
   contained the default deck.
 * Tweak centering of top bar.
 * Don't ignore enter key when focus is returned from another app.
 * If deck contains brackets, quote the deck in a search.
 * Decrease minimum height of the browser.
 * If user attempts to import a .anki2 file, explain it can't be imported.
 * Other small fixes.

= Changes in Release Candidate 6 =

 * Automatic backups are now compressed and saved as .apkg (with no media),
   instead of an .anki2 file. The previous .anki2 files in your backup folder
   will not be automatically deleted, so you'll need to remove them manually
   if you need the space.
 * When importing an .apkg file, you're now given a choice whether to add new
   content, or replace your entire collection with the file you're importing.
   This makes it easier to restore from backup or copy your collection from a
   mobile device: simply double click on the apkg and then choose "replace".
 * Exporting now defaults to exporting your entire collection as an apkg,
   with scheduling info and media.
 * Detect when a profile is corrupt, and display an error instead of a
   non-functional interface.
 * Count 1+ day learning cards in card count pie chart.
 * Fixed some issues with translations.

= Download =

Download links are available at http://ankisrs.net/anki2.html
